----------------
PROPOSED SYSTEM
----------------

The proposed system is a simulation of Home Automation System based on iot which includes raspberryPi as the main Micro controller working with the below mentioned sensors.
----------------------
Gas detection system:

Gas detection system includes MQ-2 gas sensor,Active Buzzer module, GSM module.
The MQ-2 gas sensor detects the presence of harmful gases such as (h2,CO,CH4,Propane,Alcohol,Smoke etc.. if any) in the home environment.The principle involves an electrochemical sensor which changes it's resistances for different gases.
On detection of any of the mentioned harmful gases, the active buzzer module is turned on and the alarm is triggered.
The GSM module, which consists of a SIM, then sends alerts in the form of SMS to the identified user mobile number.

---------------------------------------
Motion/Human Presence detection system:

The motion detection system consits of a Passive Infrared Ray(PIR) motion sensor
The PIR motion sensor recognizes infrared light emitted from near by objects.PIR sensors use thermal sensing.The sensor uses a pair of pyro electric sesnors to detect heat energy in the surrounding environment.These two sensors sit beside each other, and when the signal differential between the two sensors changes(for example when a person enters the room), the sensor will engage.


--------------------------
Automatic lighting system:

The lighting system consits of LDR sensor, LED bulb.
The light system is enabled based on the PIR motion sensor's input i.e, only when a person is detected, the sensors are enabled.Once the LDR sensor is enabled, it gets light intensity reading from the surrounding environment.The working of LDR is based on Photo resistance of the diode i.e, when the intensity of light in the room is more, the resistance of the diode decreases and vice-versa.When light intensity is high, the resistance is low indicating a high pulse that denotes the intensity reading.Based on this reading , the raspberrypi computes and sends signals to the LED bulb/lights to turn On or Turn OFF.

-------------------------------------
Temperature and Automatic Fan system:

The temperature and Fan system includes LM35 tempertaure sensor along with a DC fan Motor.
Similar to the LDR sensor, the system is enabled based on the input from the PIR motioin sensor.When a human presence is detected, the LM35 sensor senses the temperature of the surrounding environment.The Principle is when voltage increases, it results in the rise of temperature.This analog reading is sent to the ADC module which is then converted to digital and sent ot raspberryPi.The raspberryPi then computes and sends signal to DC fan motor to turn ON/OFF.

--------
Display:

display system includes LCD screen of 16x2 length.
In every step of the working, the related messages, Readings from sensors, status of operational devices is displayed on the LCD screen.
 